Add in-Place pod resize beta blog post (#50024)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/XXXX-XX-XX-In-Place-Pod-Resize-Beta.md

Reviewer: nit: we prefer filenames in lowercase

* **Stability and Productionization:** Continued focus on hardening the feature, improving performance, and ensuring it is robust for production environments.
* **Addressing Limitations:** Working towards relaxing some of the current limitations noted in the documentation, such as allowing memory limit decreases.
* **[VerticalPodAutoscaler](/docs/concepts/workloads/autoscaling/#scaling-workloads-vertically) (VPA) Integration:** Work to enable VPA to leverage in-place Pod resize is already underway. A new `InPlaceOrRecreate` update mode will allow it to attempt non-disruptive resizes first, or fall back to recreation if needed. This will allow users to benefit from VPA's recommendations with significantly less disruption.
* **User Feedback:** Gathering feedback from users adopting the beta feature is crucial for prioritizing further enhancements and addressing any uncovered issues or bugs.

## Getting started and providing feedback

With the `InPlacePodVerticalScaling` feature gate enabled by default in v1.33, you can start experimenting with in-place Pod resizing right away!

> Refer to the [documentation](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/) for detailed guides and examples.

Reviewer: Is there any relevant concept documentation yet (even if only on the _dev-1.33_ branch)? If so, link there. If not, please try to rally the people who'll work on that.

Author: I'll work on adding a concept page

Reviewer: We have this pinned as the most prominent issue we'd like folks to work on: **[#38867](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/38867)**

Bear that issue in mind; however, don't feel that you must pick it up all that work yourself. All I want for now @tallclair is that you mentally build a sense of how we might evolve the docs, and have regard for this when you write.

For now, adding a section to the existing Pod concept may well be enough. Right now, if you search within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/ for the term _resize_ there is no match, and that doesn't seem right for GA quality.

(for beta features, and especially enabled-by-default beta features, we ask that the docs aim for either actual GA quality, or a near approximation).

Author: Do you have any thoughts on how this should be organized? A dedicated concept page for in-place resize seems a  bit narrow compared to the scope of the other concept pages. I could add it to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/, but that page is already getting kind of long. Most of the information is already captured in the task page, so I'd probably want to move most of that to a concept page if we added one.

Reviewer: The Pod page is getting long, but you get a pass! We (SIG Docs) know it needs a refactor and so I don't think folks will object if someone makes it longer.

If you or someone else have capacity to copy more of the conceptual detail into the concept page on the _dev-1.33_ branch, that's handy.

It's OK to have this done past docs freeze; docs freeze is the deadline for having barely-enough documentation in place [and missing it could lead to merged code getting reverted], but what's frozen is the _set of accepted enhancements_ not the _branch we will merge in_.

And if all of that happens, this blog article can link to the new section of the Pod concept page. The new section, if it gets added, should then link onwards to the relevant task page (and, ideally, also to a tutorial). The task page then becomes a more focused explanation of how someone can change the resources assigned to a running Pod.

---
layout: blog
title: "In-Place Pod Resize Graduating to Beta"
slug: in-place-pod-resize-beta

> canonicalUrl: https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/XXXX/XX/XX/in-place-pod-resize-beta

Reviewer: Not needed in this context, but we do need something else.
```suggestion
draft: true
```

date: XXXX-XX-XX

> author: "Tim Allclair"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: "Tim Allclair (Google)"
```

---

## In-Place Pod Resize graduates to Beta in Kubernetes v1.33!

> We are excited to announce that the **In-Place Pod Resize** feature (also known as In-Place Pod Vertical Scaling), first introduced as alpha in Kubernetes v1.27, is graduating to **Beta** and will be enabled by default in the Kubernetes v1.33 release! This marks a significant milestone in making resource management for Kubernetes workloads more flexible and less disruptive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On behalf of the Kubernetes project, I am excited to announce that the *in-place Pod resize* feature
(also known as _in-place Pod vertical scaling_), first introduced as alpha in Kubernetes v1.27,
has graduated to **Beta** and is enabled by default in the Kubernetes v1.33 release!
This marks a significant milestone in making resource management for Kubernetes workloads more flexible and less disruptive.
```

Reviewer: Avoid "we" in blog articles with one author, unless you mean "Google".

> ### What is In-place Pod Resize?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is in-place Pod resize?
```

Traditionally, changing the CPU or memory resources allocated to a container required restarting the Pod. While acceptable for many stateless applications, this could be disruptive for stateful services, batch jobs, or any workloads sensitive to restarts.

> In-Place Pod Resize allows you to change the CPU and memory requests and limits assigned to containers within a *running* Pod, often without requiring a container restart.

Author: Heh, I think that's what I had originally. I'll defer to @lmktfy for this.
cc @vinaykul

> In-place pod resize allows you to change the CPU and memory requests and limits assigned to containers within a *running* Pod, often without requiring a container restart.

Author: I think capitalizing Pod is a k8s docs convention? https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-upper-camel-case-for-api-objects

Here's the core idea:

> * The `spec.containers[*].resources` field in a Pod specification now represents the *desired* resources and is mutable for CPU and memory.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention `AllocatedResources`? It might be useful for development of end-user o11y tools

Author: I decided not to because I think most users should just look at `resources`. The documentation page (see https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/50290) discusses `allocatedResources` in more detail. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: SG.

* The `status.containerStatuses[*].resources` field reflects the *actual* resources currently applied to a running container.

> * You trigger a resize by updating the desired resources in the Pod spec via the new `resize` subresource.

Author: How about `You can trigger ...`?

> You can try it out on a v1.33+ cluster by using kubectl to edit a Pod (requires kubectl v1.32+):

Author: Left the kubectl version as v1.32+ since the required change there is independent of in-place pod resize

```shell
kubectl edit pod <pod-name> --subresource resize
```

> For detailed usage instructions and examples, please refer to the official Kubernetes documentation: [Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/).

Author: Yeah, that's in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/50290. I'd appreciate your feedback there too if you have time!

> For detailed usage instructions and examples, please refer to the official Kubernetes documentation: [Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/).

Reviewer 2: Ack. I'll look.

> For detailed usage instructions and examples, please refer to the official Kubernetes documentation: [Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed usage instructions and examples, please refer to the official Kubernetes documentation:
[Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/).
```

> ### Why Does In-place Pod Resize Matter?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why does in-place Pod resize matter?
```

> This feature unlocks several key benefits:

Reviewer: Do you agree with this:
```suggestion
Kubernetes still lets you scale your workload horizontally (adding or removing replicas),
and it still lets you handle a vertical resize by launching replacement Pods at different sizes.
However, in-place Pod resizing unlocks several key benefits:
```
?

Author: It's true, but I think distracts too much from the main statement. How about this instead:

```suggestion
Kubernetes still excels at scaling workloads horizontally (adding or removing replicas), but in-place Pod resizing unlocks several key benefits for vertical scaling:
```

Reviewer: SGTM

* **Reduced Disruption:** Stateful applications, long-running batch jobs, and sensitive workloads can have their resources adjusted without suffering the downtime or state loss associated with a Pod restart.
* **Improved Resource Utilization:** Scale down over-provisioned Pods without disruption, freeing up resources in the cluster. Conversely, provide more resources to Pods under heavy load without needing a restart.
* **Faster Scaling:** Address transient resource needs more quickly. For example Java applications often need more CPU during startup than during steady-state operation. Start with higher CPU and resize down later.

> ### What's Changed from Alpha to Beta?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What changed bwteeen Alpha and Beta?
```

Since the alpha release in v1.27, significant work has gone into maturing the feature, improving its stability, and refining the user experience based on feedback and further development. Here are the key changes:

> **Major User-Facing Changes:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Notable user-facing changes
```

Reviewer: These changes aren't major in the sense SIG Architecture might use.

> 1.  **`resize` Subresource:** Modifying Pod resources must now be done via the Pod's `resize` subresource (`kubectl patch pod <name> --subresource resize ...`). `kubectl` versions v1.32+ support this argument.

Reviewer 2: Please consider using bullets (and sub-bullets) for consistency. It reads better imho.

Author: Good point, done.

* **Resize Status via Conditions:** The old `status.resize` field is deprecated. The status of a resize operation is now exposed via two Pod conditions:
    * `PodResizePending`: Indicates the Kubelet cannot grant the resize immediately (e.g., `reason: Deferred` if temporarily unable, `reason: Infeasible` if impossible on the node).
    * `PodResizeInProgress`: Indicates the resize is accepted and being applied. Errors encountered during this phase are now reported in this condition's message with `reason: Error`.

> * **Sidecar Support:** In-place resizing is now supported for sidecar containers (init containers with `restartPolicy: Always`).

Reviewer 2: nit: `In-place resizing` -> `In-place Pod Resize`

Reviewer 2: 💯

> **Key Stability and Reliability Enhancements:**

Author: Decided to drop "Key"

> * **Refined Allocated Resources Management:** The allocation management logic with the Kubelet was significantly reworked, making it more consistent and robust. The changes eliminated whole classes of bugs, and greatly improved the reliability of in-place resizing.

Reviewer 2: nit: Here as well.. `in-place resizing` -> `In-place Pod Resize`

> * **Improved Checkpointing & State Tracking:** A more robust system for tracking "allocated" and "actuated" resources was implemented, using new checkpoint files (`allocated_pods_state`, `actuated_pods_state`) to reliably manage resize state across Kubelet restarts and handle edge cases where runtime-reported resources differ from requested ones. Several bugs related to checkpointing and state restoration were fixed. Checkpointing efficiency was also improved.

Author: This section isn't exactly user-facing changes, but I wanted to highlight how much work has gone into it over the last couple releases.

* **Faster Resize Detection:** Enhancements to the Kubelet's Pod Lifecycle Event Generator (PLEG) allow the Kubelet to respond to and complete resizes much more quickly.
* **Enhanced CRI Integration:** A new `UpdatePodSandboxResources` CRI call was added to better inform runtimes and plugins (like NRI) about Pod-level resource changes.
* **Numerous Bug Fixes:** Addressed issues related to systemd cgroup drivers, handling of containers without limits, CPU minimum share calculations, container restart backoffs, error propagation, test stability, and more.

> ### What's Next?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's next?
```

Graduating to Beta means the feature is ready for broader adoption, but development doesn't stop here! Here's what the community is focusing on next:

> * **Stability and Productionization:** Continued focus on hardening the feature, improving performance, and ensuring it's robust for production environments.

Reviewer 2: `it's` -> `it is`

* **Addressing Limitations:** Working towards relaxing some of the current limitations noted in the documentation, such as allowing memory limit decreases.

> * **Vertical Pod Autoscaler (VPA) Integration:** Work to enable VPA to leverage in-place pod resize is already underway. A new `InPlaceOrRecreate` update mode will allow it to attempt non-disruptive resizes first, or fall back to recreation if needed. This will allow users to benefit from VPA's recommendations with significantly less disruption.

Author: Done, changed a few other places to be consistent too.

* **User Feedback:** Gathering feedback from users adopting the beta feature is crucial for prioritizing further enhancements and addressing any uncovered issues or bugs.

> ### Getting Started and Providing Feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Getting started and providing feedback
```
